Okay, so now let's talk about CIDR or CIDRs
or Classless Inter-Domain Routing,
which I will call CIDR for the rest of this course.
So, it's a method for allocating IP addresses
and we've seen them before in this course,
because when we look at security group rules for example
and networking in AWS, we saw something like this.
So, these are my security group rules
and if we look at the source column,
here we remember we had an IP address / and then a number
and this was our first touch with CIDRs.
So, CIDRs help define IP ranges
that we've seen some very, very simple one.
So, when we have an IP address /32,
this actually represents only one IP.
And when we saw 0.0.0.0/0
then this is represented all IPs,
but there are a lot of different possibilities.
For example,
if we define 192.168.0.0/26
then this represents a range of 64 IP addresses
as you see in this slide.
So, how does CIDR work?
Well, CIDR has two components.
There's the base IP and this is an IP that is contained
in the range.
Usually it is the beginning of the range,
but it could be that it's contained in the range.
And then, so this is example, so 10.0.0.0 or 192.168.0.0.
And then the other thing is the subnet mask
and the subnet mask will define how many bits
can change in the IP.
So, we have the /0, /24 all the way to /32
and this can take two different forms.
So, if we have /8 this is equivalent
to subnet mask of 255.0.0.0
and /16 is 255.255.0.0
and so on, okay.
But the most common form we see in this course and in AWS
is the / form, okay?
So, for the rest of this course
we'll be using /8, /16 and so on.
Now, let's have a detailed look at subnet masks.
So, this is how we can define
which values can change from the base IP.
So, if we have an IP address /32,
this allows for one IP, 2 to the power of 0
and this is the IP that we have on the left hand side.
Now, if we have an IP /31,
then we allow for two different IPs.
And so we'll allow for 192.168.0.0 and then .0.1.
If we have the same IP /30,
now this goes exponentially as you can see,
we allow for 4 IPs.
So, we'll have a bigger range from .0 to .3,
then /29 allows for 8 IPs so .0 to .7.
/28 allow for 16 IPs, so .0 to .15,
then we can look at the table, okay.
So, it goes from 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256 IPs to change.
So, the /24 is 256 IPs, which is 2 to the power of 8
and this is from .0 to .255.
Then if we go one step deeper,
so we go to /16, so I skipped some in the middle.
Then we allow for 2 to the power of 16 IP to change,
so 65,536.
So, as we can see the last two parts of the IPs have changed
and then /0 allows for all IPs,
so from the very beginning to the very end.
So, how do we know?
As a quick memo we know an IP is made of 4 Octets,
so the first part, the second part,
the third part and the fourth part.
And /32 means no octets can change,
/24 means the last octet can change,
/16 means the last 2 octets can change
and take different values.
/8 is the last three octets can change
and /0 is all octets can change.
So, hopefully they started making a little bit more sense
into how CIDRs work.
So, now here comes a little exercise,
feel free to pause the video if you need to answer.
So, what is 192.168.0.0/24?
So, /24 so that means the last octet can change
and so therefore we have 256 IPs,
because the last number it can go from the number 0
to the number 255 included.
Now, what is 192.168.0.0/16?
Well, this is /16,
so the last two octets can change,
so we have a 65,536 IPs.
And what is 134.56.78.123/32?
Well, /32 so it's only one IP, so just one IP.
And then 0.0.0.0/0 we know this one,
it is all IPv4 space, okay?
When in doubt, there is this little website
that I can show you that is very, very handy.
So, on this website we have two options,
we can have a CIDR to an IP range
or an IP range to a CIDR, so let's try both.
So, if you have 10.0.0.0/ let's say a 16,
we calculate it as you can see we see the first IP
and the last IP in here.
How many IPs are including to the range and so on?
Okay.
If we do /17, which is a little bit less obvious.
In this one, we have 32,000 or so IPs.
We can have a look at the first bit so
this is the first IP and this is the last IP,
so it's quite handy and again you can play.
And reversely if you wanted to for example,
take an IP range, so this IP range and figure out
what CIDR this corresponds to, then click on calculate
and this will give us a result of 10.0.0.0/17.
So it's quite handy, if you start doing some networking
to use a website like this to help you out.
So, why are we talking about all these things?
Well, because we want to discuss public versus private IP
in the IPv4 space.
So, there is the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority
the IANA that established certain blocks of IPv4 addresses
that will be used only for private LAN networks,
so local network or public internet addresses.
So, the private IPs can only allow for certain values.
So we have this range for 10.0.0.0/8
which represents, you know a huge amount of IPs.
So, this is a private IP range you can use
and this is your least something you use in big networks,
because it allows for lot of different values.
Then we have the 172.16.0.0/12,
which is another sets of private IP addresses.
And when you create an account
it will provide you with a default VPC
and it turns out the default VPC
will be included in that networking space.
And then finally,
another one you may have seen before is 192.168.0.0/16,
which represents your home network.
So, this is very common when you have an internet router
to have your own devices,
have an IP that starts with 192, okay?
So, all the other IP addresses out there in the world
are going to be on the internet
and they're going to be public IP addresses.
So, that's it for these basics of IPv4s and CIDRs,
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.